# English-Music-Lyrics-Dataset-Contains-300-songs
Music has a soothing impact on listener’s mood and emotional states. Apart from the rhythm, sequence, instrumental effects on a song, lyrics could be considered as the most vital element. Lyricists’ mood and affection towards a song while writing could be understand from the lyrics. As lyrics are nothing but a form of text, the elements of fictions such as language tone, language style, diction and voice are well maintained in music lyrics. Understanding the tone of a song both language and emotional tones are essential to develop different interactive applications. Music players, video repositories, video sharing sites could use the understandings to recommend next song to play according to the music interest or mood of the listeners. Understanding the language and emotional tone is thus a challenging task. In this paper, we have investigated the possibilities to use IBM Watson Tone Analyzer, an open-source API service to analyze language and emotional tones from song lyrics. We have extracted the features from a 300 English song dataset using the supported API service and formulated a machine learning methodology to classify the language tone (analytical, confident and tentative) and emotional tone (anger, fear, joy and sadness). For classification purpose, we have applied different classifiers includes Naïve Bayes, decision trees and variations, ensemble classifier such as random forest, sequential minimal optimization and simple logistic regression.

This dataset is a 300 English song dataset for the above task. All the files are adorn with .docx file

If someone need this data set, please feel free to email us. You must provide "Consent letter" for the dataset.

Email: marouf.cse@diu.edu.bd, rafayet3994@diu.edu.bd
